Observability V2.1 Release (Hilla) (#2457)
vaadin/docs: articles/lit/acceleration-kits/observability-kit/getting-started.adoc

---
title: Getting started
description: Step-by-step guide on how to use Observability Kit in an application.
order: 100
---
:lit:
// tag::content[]

= Getting Started with Observability Kit
:sectnums:

== Create a Hilla Application

You can create a Hilla application by entering the following from the command-line:

ifdef::lit[]
[source,bash]
----
npx @hilla/cli init <your-project-name>
----
endif::[]

ifdef::react[]
[source,bash]
----
npx @hilla/cli init --react <your-project-name>
----
endif::[]

== Download & Configure

Observability Kit consists of two parts: the Starter dependency and the Agent.

[role="since:dev.hilla:hilla@V2.1"]

=== Starter dependency

The Starter dependency can be added to your project by adding the following to the `pom` file:

.`pom.xml`
[source,xml]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>dev.hilla</groupId>
  <artifactId>observability-kit-starter</artifactId>
</dependency>
----

> To process the observability endpoint that comes along with the starter, add the following configuration to your `hilla-engine-plugin`.

Author: ```suggestion
The starter includes a Hilla endpoint. To include and activate the endpoint, add the following configuration to your `hilla-engine-plugin`.
```
